# The Penthouse
When the squid-freaks asked if they could land a team on my penthouse
roof, I wasn't surprised. I'd actually been expecting them to ask
sooner. The only thing more unsettling than the carnage of the squids'
arrival has been the silence emanating from that building ever since.
I'm not surprised someone wants to know what's going on in there.

Still, when my lawyer called with their request, the first thing I
thought of was you. Of all the great times we had in that place; all the
saucy evenings and sweaty mornings. All the times we stayed up all night
talking and watching the sun rise over the city. Of the night you died
there--the night the squids came.

I told them they could go ahead, but that I'd be coming with them. I'm
not about to let a bunch of squid loving nerds turn my place upside
down. Besides, I left in quite a hurry and I wouldn't want them finding
anything--unsavoury. The bedroom's on the top floor anyway and there's
bound to be all sorts of love-related flotsam and jetsam about the
place. I won't have you embarrassed in front of strangers, no matter how
long it's been.

Now that I'm here it's certainly stirred up memories. It doesn't look
the same, of course--the place is dismal with the overcast sky filtering
in through dirty windows. But somehow the gloom still reminds me of the
late evening light when you used to turn up, a ding at the elevator
announcing your arrival. That's where they were--with the elevator--when
I stepped into the bedroom. They seemed very interested in getting the
doors open, so I thought I'd leave them to it.

It was just as we left it, moments before you died. The sheets were all
rumpled and the pillows were on the floor. Your lingerie was scattered
here and there and my jeans were in a pile. My favourite belt was still
threaded around those jeans--I've been wondering where it got to. Your
earrings were still on the bedside cabinet and seeing them transported
me back to that night. You didn't need to bring Martha into it--we were
doing just fine without involving her. I suppose women like you are
always jealous of men like me, but that's no excuse for bringing
marriages into the equation. The funny thing is, I divorced Martha last
year--she got jealous, just like you--so if you could have held out
another few months we might have been able to avoid all the nastiness.
Who knows, you might even still be alive.

I unreeled the belt and wrapped it around my fist before tucking it into
my jacket. I didn't bother with your earrings. Voices from the hallway
reminded me I wasn't alone and I returned to the living room to see what
was happening. The two heavily built troopers were back guarding the
weedy old man and the younger, nervous looking one.

"No luck with the circuit breaker then?" I didn't really care, but they
were all looking at me expectantly.

"No--not really. The power's dead--which you'd expect--but, I mean,
well--the power's dead."

He certainly did seem very nervous, but that's probably because he's not
used to talking to celebrities. That makes a lot of people nervous.

"My\...assistant is correct, I'm afraid Mr Nobal. We'll need the ropes
to get down the elevator shaft, but we did at least manage to open the
doors. Well done boys," he nodded to the two soldiers.

"Fine by me. Just make sure you don't break anything." That was supposed
to be a joke, but they all just looked at me as if I was speaking
French. Squid-freaks, they're only interested in one thing.

"So, Mr Nobal, what happened here on that night?"

My God, is he talking about you? No, of course not. He's talking about
the squids. Being here without you must be making me jumpy. I glanced at
the wall where you died. No sign of it--no sign of the blood. Just a
small dent in the plaster where your head hit it. The old man glanced
behind him to see what I was looking at and then turned back. I couldn't
read the expression on his face.

"Well, you know the story. Everyone here was minding their own business
when suddenly--bham! The squids came down, landed their ship right on
the roof and tore through the building killing everyone in their path."
I shrugged. "You know the story."

"It's a wonder you survived at all, Mr Nobal, when so you many young
women--and men--lost their lives. You must consider yourself
very\...l-lucky."

"Yeah, well, what can I say? I've got a safe room out the back. Not
everyone can afford that kind of thing, but--well, I own the building so
I can have whatever I want. It's not luck pal, just money."

He stared at me blankly for a moment and then asked, "I see. Yes. So,
you were alone then, that night?"

Yes, of course I was alone. Why's he asking me that? I know you were
there, but then you went and brought up Martha and so you died and then
I was alone. Yes.

"Yes."

"Ah."

A noise came from down the hall and I jumped like a freshman at a dog
fight.

"Check it," said the old fart and one of the meat-heads stomped over to
the elevator doors. He walked back quickly, fingering his weapon.

"Nothing we wouldn't be expecting, sir." I think he was sweating.

"It's just that--well, I heard that you weren't alone that night, Mr
Nobal. I heard there was someone with you that night."

This was too much. "Listen Mr\...whoever-you-are, I don't care what you
think you've heard or where you think you've heard it, but I was alone
here that night, no woman, no nothing, just me, myself and I. The squids
came and I ran for my life, just like everyone else. End of. Now, are
you here for your precious squids or are you here for me? Because if
it's me, I'll call that chopper back right now and you and your cronies
can leave through the lobby. Crystal?"

He looked back at me with eyes like cold steel. I don't think he was
intimidated by me at all, which is strange. People like that either have
something over me, or have nothing to lose.

"Quite, thank you Mr Nobal. Thank you for confirming that you were, in
fact, in the company of a young woman. You were here with that woman,
and she died that night. You did not find space for her in your safe
room and she died here along with countless others. I assume your safe
room is bigger than a box? I assume you could have taken here with you,
given the state of your bedroom? I assume, therefore, that you meant her
to die. That you abandoned her to these\...creatures. Am I correct, Mr
Nobal? Am I correct?"

I'm not sure what frightened me more: this insane fanatic of yours or
the noise that echoed out of the lift shaft again. This time, it rang
and reverberated. It was getting louder--something was coming up.
Old-fart went as white as a sheet and the two meat-heads ran to each
side of the room, bringing their weapons to bear. As they were taking up
their positions--and I remember these final few moments very
clearly--the old man dashed for the roof and the younger one made for
the drinks counter. As he was stumbling past me he slapped me on the
shoulder as if he was wishing me luck or something. Probably hero
worship. Even so, once this flurry of movement subsided I found myself
standing in the middle of the room by myself. I might as well have had a
bullseye painted on my chest.

It felt like I was standing there for hours, even though only a second
or two could have passed. The trooper to my right dropped to one knee
and raised his weapon's sight to his eye. Small-fry was taking a
slow-motion dive towards the counter. It's funny how you can recall the
finest details about moments that define your life. Just like the moment
you died. I didn't want you to die, but holding Martha over me like that
is not my idea of a joke. You don't get to where I am by letting your
squeezes blackmail you. I remember your face going blue and the trickle
of blood from the back of your head against the wall. My hand around
your neck felt like an embrace and I remember wondering what to feel.
Disappointment, mostly, I decided. Disappointment that you'd ruined
things, disappointment you'd forced my hand, disappointment you'd died.
It was like I watched myself do it, like I was an outsider. A lot like
now. I can see the tentacles lick round the edge of the lift doors, see
its shiny beak loom out of the darkness. Its glistening antennae
flicking this way and that before all focusing on me. I notice the
blinking light on my shoulder from the patch that little-puff stuck
there. Bait. That's what I am, just meat on a hook.

They're cowards, all of them. The two soldiers are sitting there like
lemons, not firing a shot. The young one is hiding behind old vodka
bottles. The old one is probably already on the roof. People like them
deserve to die. Contemptible, really.

\*

"Fire! Fire, goddammit!"

The older man didn't need to shout twice, because the two sweating
soldiers had squeezed their triggers before the first syllable had left
his lips. Shortly thereafter the alien creature lay in a pool of its
yellow blood, which was slowly mixing with the haemoglobin oozing from
the flesh its beak was buried in. Once it was all over, the only sounds
were that of two panting men cradling their cooling weapons, which were
clicking gently.

"Do you think it'll work?" came a voice from behind the drinks counter.

"Yes of course it will work you fool, who's going to question how he
died with that thing's muzzle in his chest?"

He spat, although it wasn't clear which corpse he was aiming for.

"You did it Dad, we finally got him, we got him for her."

The older man nodded in triumph, but seemed to shrink at the same time.

"Yes, we did\...we did it for your sister\...that sick pervert--he even
admitted it--we did it for your sister\...contemptible\..."
